README.md, before:

# Chronz — Context-Aware Timezone Utilities for Go

<p align="center">
  <img src="./chronz.png" alt="Chronz Logo" width="220"/>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mhshajib/chronz"><img src="https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/mhshajib/chronz.png" alt="Go Reference"></a>
  <a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/mhshajib/chronz"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/mhshajib/chronz" alt="Go Report Card"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
</p>

Chronz is a Go library that ensures all your timestamps are stored in UTC while automatically converting to and from local timezones. It uses a context.Context to determine which timezone should apply — either from an explicit timezone string (e.g., "Asia/Dhaka") or from a country_id mapped to a timezone.

It works with both:

- GORM (Postgres) via a TZTimeSerializer
- MongoDB via a TZCollection wrapper

## Overview

- Converts local <-> UTC automatically
- Context-driven per-request timezone (WithTZName, WithCountryID)
- Works with both Postgres (GORM) and MongoDB
- Optional custom country_id → timezone mapping
- Non-intrusive: no need to change schema or server TZ
- Includes runnable Docker Compose examples

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/mhshajib/chronz
```

## Basic Usage

### Set a timezone

```go
ctx := chronz.WithTZName(context.Background(), "Asia/Dhaka")
```

### (Optional) Country ID mapping

```go
chronz.RegisterCountryTZMap(map[int]string{
    1: "Asia/Dhaka",
    2: "Asia/Kuala_Lumpur",
    3: "Europe/London",
})
ctx := chronz.WithCountryID(context.Background(), 1)
```

### Fallback and Default Timezone

If no timezone or country is provided, Chronz falls back to UTC by default.

You can change the default fallback for your entire application using:

```go
chronz.SetDefaultTZ("Asia/Dhaka")
```

After setting this, any context without WithTZName or WithCountryID will use "Asia/Dhaka" as its default timezone.

Example:

```go
func init() {
    chronz.SetDefaultTZ("Asia/Dhaka")
}
```

Now if you call:

```go
ctx := context.Background()
loc := chronz.LocationFromCtx(ctx)
fmt.Println(loc) // Asia/Dhaka
```

it will use your custom fallback timezone automatically.

## Using with GORM (Postgres)

### Import and register the serializer

```go
import (
  "gorm.io/gorm/schema"
  chronzgorm "github.com/mhshajib/chronz/chronz_gorm"
)

schema.RegisterSerializer("tztime", chronzgorm.TZTimeSerializer{})
```

### Tag your model fields

```go
type Order struct {
  ID        uint
  CreatedAt time.Time `tz:"local" gorm:"serializer:tztime"`
}
```

### Insert data (local → UTC)

```go
ctx := chronz.WithTZName(context.Background(), "Asia/Dhaka")
db.WithContext(ctx).Create(&Order{CreatedAt: time.Now()})
```

### Query data (UTC → local)

```go
var orders []Order
db.WithContext(ctx).Find(&orders)
fmt.Println(orders[0].CreatedAt) // in local timezone
```

### Using time-based filters safely

You can safely use either named or positional parameters for time-based filters.  
Both automatically convert local input times to UTC before querying.

**Named param (with @created_at):**

```go
db.Where("created_at >= @created_at", chronzgorm.ArgTime(ctx, "created_at", input)).Find(&out)
```

**Positional param (with ?):**

```go
db.Where("created_at >= ?", chronzgorm.ArgTimeValue(ctx, input)).Find(&out)
```

## Example Projects

### GORM + Postgres Example

Folder: examples/gorm_postgres

```bash
cd examples/gorm_postgres
docker compose up -d
go mod tidy
go run .
```

Expected output:

```
Orders (localized):
 -> 2025-11-02 21:47:00 +0600 +06
```

## License

MIT © 2025 [Shajib Sikder](https://github.com/mhshajib)

## Contributors

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=mhshajib/chronz)](https://github.com/mhshajib/chronz/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

chore: LICENSE and readme updated

README.md, after:

# Chronz — Context-Aware Timezone Utilities for Go

<p align="center">
  <img src="./chronz.png" alt="Chronz Logo" width="220"/>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mhshajib/chronz"><img src="https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/mhshajib/chronz.png" alt="Go Reference"></a>
  <a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/mhshajib/chronz"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/mhshajib/chronz" alt="Go Report Card"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
</p>

Chronz is a Go library that ensures all your timestamps are stored in UTC while automatically converting to and from local timezones. It uses a context.Context to determine which timezone should apply — either from an explicit timezone string (e.g., "Asia/Dhaka") or from a country_id mapped to a timezone.

It works with both:

- GORM (Postgres) via a TZTimeSerializer
- MongoDB via a TZCollection wrapper

## Overview

- Converts local <-> UTC automatically
- Context-driven per-request timezone (WithTZName, WithCountryID)
- Works with both Postgres (GORM) and MongoDB
- Optional custom country_id → timezone mapping
- Non-intrusive: no need to change schema or server TZ
- Includes runnable Docker Compose examples

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/mhshajib/chronz
```

## Basic Usage

### Set a timezone

```go
ctx := chronz.WithTZName(context.Background(), "Asia/Dhaka")
```

### (Optional) Country ID mapping

```go
chronz.RegisterCountryTZMap(map[int]string{
    1: "Asia/Dhaka",
    2: "Asia/Kuala_Lumpur",
    3: "Europe/London",
})
ctx := chronz.WithCountryID(context.Background(), 1)
```

### Fallback and Default Timezone

If no timezone or country is provided, Chronz falls back to UTC by default.

You can change the default fallback for your entire application using:

```go
chronz.SetDefaultTZ("Asia/Dhaka")
```

After setting this, any context without WithTZName or WithCountryID will use "Asia/Dhaka" as its default timezone.

Example:

```go
func init() {
    chronz.SetDefaultTZ("Asia/Dhaka")
}
```

Now if you call:

```go
ctx := context.Background()
loc := chronz.LocationFromCtx(ctx)
fmt.Println(loc) // Asia/Dhaka
```

it will use your custom fallback timezone automatically.

## Using with GORM (Postgres)

### Import and register the serializer

```go
import (
  "gorm.io/gorm/schema"
  chronzgorm "github.com/mhshajib/chronz/chronz_gorm"
)

schema.RegisterSerializer("tztime", chronzgorm.TZTimeSerializer{})
```

### Tag your model fields

```go
type Order struct {
  ID        uint
  CreatedAt time.Time `tz:"local" gorm:"serializer:tztime"`
}
```

### Insert data (local → UTC)

```go
ctx := chronz.WithTZName(context.Background(), "Asia/Dhaka")
db.WithContext(ctx).Create(&Order{CreatedAt: time.Now()})
```

### Query data (UTC → local)

```go
var orders []Order
db.WithContext(ctx).Find(&orders)
fmt.Println(orders[0].CreatedAt) // in local timezone
```

### Using time-based filters safely

You can safely use either named or positional parameters for time-based filters.  
Both automatically convert local input times to UTC before querying.

**Named param (with @created_at):**

```go
db.Where("created_at >= @created_at", chronzgorm.ArgTime(ctx, "created_at", input)).Find(&out)
```

**Positional param (with ?):**

```go
db.Where("created_at >= ?", chronzgorm.ArgTimeValue(ctx, input)).Find(&out)
```

## Example Projects

### GORM + Postgres Example

Folder: examples/gorm_postgres

```bash
cd examples/gorm_postgres
docker compose up -d
go mod tidy
go run .
```

Expected output:

```
Orders (localized):
 -> 2025-11-02 21:47:00 +0600 +06
```

## License

Chronz License (MIT + Attribution) © 2025 [Shajib Sikder](https://github.com/mhshajib)

This software may be freely used, modified, and distributed with proper
attribution to the original author and repository.

## Contributors

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=mhshajib/chronz)](https://github.com/mhshajib/chronz/graphs/contributors)
